# Music-Player-App-Final-Project
The application we developed for our group project allows the user to play selected songs using Windows Media Player.  We are referencing the YouTube video “How to Create a Player App in C Sharp” linked to from the “project ideas for c beginners to expert website” in the instructions.  We modified the code to add functionality to the base application.
This base application uses the standard Windows Media Player provided with all Windows PCs.  It allows multiple .mp3 files to be selected and included in the listBoxSongs window by using a Select Songs button.  This button opens the FileDialog box and is set to allow multiple files to be selected.  The titles of the selected songs are placed in array “files” and displayed in the listBoxSongs window.  The URLs of the selected files are placed in the array “paths”.  The media player controls (play, stop, rewind, fast forward, and volume) are available to the user during playback.  The default media player display is a sound waveform.  The title of the playing song is also shown in the media player display.
The original Player App design was changed to improve the graphic user interface.  The Windows Media Player was moved to the right and the listBoxSongs window was moved to the left.  The Select Songs button was placed above the listBoxSongs window.  The three new buttons developed for the project were centered below the listBoxSongs window.  A developed by credit is centered at the bottom of the main window.
To provide a selection of non-copyrighted music for use in the demonstration, fifteen .mp3 songs were downloaded from the Free To Use Music website.  This website provides hundreds of instrumental and vocal accompaniment background songs in dozens of categories, and all are copyright free for use.  Some premium songs require purchase.
As designed, the player will play a single song selected by clicking on a song title in the listBoxSongs window.  Song play begins when the file is selected.  We decided to modify the code to allow more functionality.  We added three additional buttons and their Event Handlers. 
The first new button is the Play All Songs button.  This button event handler creates a new empty playlist named playlist. For each string filePath in the paths array, the file URL path is appended to the playlist.  The playlist is set to the current windows media player playlist.  There is also an event handler for ListBox selection changes that activates the Windows Media Player play control.  For the Play All function, the name of the song currently playing is shown in the Windows Media Player window.
The second new button is the Play Next Song button.  If a song title is selected, then the Next Song button ends play of this song, selects the next song, plays it to the end, and then stops. If the last song in the list is playing, the selected index moves back to the first song in the list. If no song is selected when the Play Next Song button is pressed, then the first song in the list is played.
The third new button is the Stop button.  This button sets the selected index back to the first song in the list and activates the Windows Media Player stop control.
